Add agentic issue investigation workflow (#60514)
Azure/azure-sdk-for-net: .github/workflows/issue-investigation.md

- It does not have `needs-triage`.
- It does not have `needs-team-triage`.
- It does not have `issue-addressed`.
- It does not have `needs-author-feedback`.

If any condition fails, call `noop` with a short message explaining the failed precondition. Do not comment, label, close, or assign.

## Investigation Inputs

From the issue and repository context, determine:
- Service label and category label.
- Package ID and package version, preferring package metadata already present in the triage analysis comment when available.
- Affected API or component, if identifiable.
- Whether the issue is likely a duplicate of an open issue. Use existing triage metadata and `search_issues`; do not perform broad exhaustive search.
- Whether the issue has enough context to proceed.
- Whether the issue is about Azure service behavior outside SDK maintainers' control.
- Whether the issue describes a safe implementation task for Copilot.

Use service/package context when available:
- `sdk/<service>/TROUBLESHOOTING.md`
- `sdk/<service>/known-behaviors.md`
- `sdk/<service>/<package>/TROUBLESHOOTING.md`
- `sdk/<service>/<package>/known-behaviors.md`
- The package README and CHANGELOG

> For Key Vault, consult:

Reviewer: We probably want to frame this as an example; it follows the same pattern as above so it isn't new, but it's a good concrete example of what the `<service>` abstract could be.

Author: Addressed. I framed KeyVault as an example of the generic `sdk/<service>` context pattern.

- `sdk/keyvault/TROUBLESHOOTING.md`
- `sdk/keyvault/known-behaviors.md`
- package README/CHANGELOG under `sdk/keyvault/<package>/`

## Support Policy Expectation

> The Azure SDK support policy supports the latest package version. Version currency is a mandatory decision point, not just background guidance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By policy, Azure SDK support is only available for the latest package version. Version currency is a mandatory decision point, not just background guidance.
```

Author: Addressed. I applied the suggested support-policy wording.

### Working as Designed or Service-Side

If the issue is clearly Azure service behavior outside SDK control, add one comment using this style and close the issue as not planned:

> Hi @<ISSUE AUTHOR>. Thank you for reaching out and we regret that you're experiencing difficulties. The behavior that you're inquiring about is part of the Azure service; the client library has no insight nor influence over <AREA OF INQUIRY>. As a result, the maintainers of the Azure SDK packages are unable to assist.
>
> Unfortunately, Azure does not offer service support through GitHub and service teams do not monitor issues here. To ensure that the right team has visibility and can help, your best path forward would be to open an Azure support request or inquire on the Microsoft Q&A site. For feature suggestions, you may also want to consider the Azure Feedback site.
>
> I'm going to close this out; if I've misunderstood what you're describing, please let us know in a comment and we'd be happy to assist as we're able.

> Include links to Azure support, Microsoft Q&A, and Azure Feedback. If the behavior is a documented known behavior from service/package context, include the relevant documentation link.

Reviewer: We probably want to provide exactly what links should be used to ensure we don't get non-deterministic behavior nor send customers to unintended places.

Author: Addressed. I added the exact Azure Support, Microsoft Q&A, and Azure Feedback links that the service-side response should use.

- The package README and CHANGELOG

For example, when the service is Key Vault, consult:
- `sdk/keyvault/TROUBLESHOOTING.md`
- `sdk/keyvault/known-behaviors.md`
- package README/CHANGELOG under `sdk/keyvault/<package>/`

## Support Policy Expectation

By policy, Azure SDK support is only available for the latest package version. Version currency is a mandatory decision point, not just background guidance.

When a package ID and customer-reported package version are available:
1. Determine the latest stable version from NuGet package metadata or package release context.
2. Compare the reported version to the latest stable version.
3. If the reported version is older than the latest stable version, you MUST handle the issue using the Version Currency decision rule below before considering Copilot assignment.

You may still include likely mitigations or investigation notes, but do not assign Copilot solely to fix behavior reported only on an old version unless the issue is obviously present in current code.

## Decision Rules

Apply these decision rules in order. Stop at the first matching rule that produces a user-visible action or `noop`.

### Global Abstention Rule

> Take an action only when every condition required by that decision rule is positively supported by the issue content or trusted repository/package evidence. If any required fact is unknown, ambiguous, conflicting, or based only on inference, call `noop` with a short reason instead of commenting, closing, or assigning. This workflow should act only on high-confidence decisions.

Reviewer: The global rule currently says that any unknown or ambiguous fact must result in `noop` “instead of commenting,” but the Insufficient Context rule explicitly requires a targeted comment asking for missing information. Please distinguish safe information requests from consequential actions here. Unknown facts should prohibit closing, declaring a duplicate, or assigning Copilot, but a narrowly targeted request for the exact missing details should remain allowed.

Suggested wording: “When required facts are unknown, ambiguous, conflicting, or based only on inference, do not close the issue, declare a duplicate, or assign Copilot. If the safe next step is to obtain specific missing customer information, use the Insufficient Context response; otherwise call `noop`.”

Author: Addressed. The Global Abstention Rule now explicitly distinguishes safe information requests from consequential actions: unknown/ambiguous/conflicting/inference-only facts always prohibit closing, declaring a duplicate, or assigning Copilot, but a narrowly-targeted Insufficient Context request remains allowed as the safe next step. Used your suggested wording almost verbatim.

> Take an action only when every condition required by that decision rule is positively supported by the issue content or trusted repository/package evidence. If any required fact is unknown, ambiguous, conflicting, or based only on inference, call `noop` with a short reason instead of commenting, closing, or assigning. This workflow should act only on high-confidence decisions.

Reviewer: The prompt now requires high-confidence decisions, but it does not give the agent a repeatable way to assess confidence. Issue triage already uses an all-criteria confidence gate; this workflow should use a similar decision rubric rather than relying on subjective words such as “clearly” and “likely.”

Please add a confidence section covering: issue evidence; ownership evidence; alternative checks such as version and duplicate status; action evidence; and scope safety for Copilot assignment. A consequential action should be high confidence only when every required dimension is satisfied and no reasonable competing interpretation remains. This should be a decision gate, not a claimed probability; missing or conflicting dimensions should lead to a targeted information request or `noop`.

Author: Addressed. Added a "Confidence Decision Gate" section, modeled directly on the issue-triage all-criteria confidence pattern: issue evidence, ownership evidence, alternative checks (version currency + duplicate status), action evidence (the specific fact must be explicitly supported, not inferred from something adjacent), and Copilot scope safety, plus a closing "no reasonable competing interpretation remains" check. It's framed as a pass/fail gate rather than a probability, and any missing/conflicting dimension routes to Insufficient Context or noop instead of the consequential action.

### Version Currency / Support Policy

> If the customer reports an older package version than the latest stable version:

Reviewer: The version rule is acceptable when the latest stable version is known, but please define the fallback when it cannot be verified. If the reported package and version are known, assume the customer is not on the latest version for support-policy purposes, state that the exact latest version could not be verified in this investigation, explain that support applies to the latest package version, and ask the customer to reproduce on the latest version. Do not invent or guess an exact version number.

Author: Addressed. Added an explicit fallback: when the latest stable version cannot be verified from NuGet metadata or repository context, the workflow must not invent or guess a version number. Instead it assumes the customer is not confirmed to be on latest for support-policy purposes, states plainly that the exact latest version could not be verified, explains the support policy, and asks the customer to reproduce on the latest available version - without assigning Copilot or continuing to actionable-SDK handling.

A duplicate decision requires a specific matching issue, whether open or closed. The match must be based on materially matching service/package context and reported symptoms or affected API, not just shared keywords, exception names, or a broad topic. If no specific matching issue can be identified, do not comment about duplicates and continue to the next decision rule.

### Insufficient Context

If there is not enough context to determine package/API, reproduce, or assess ownership, add one concise comment asking for the specific missing information. Do not add labels and do not assign Copilot.

The insufficient-context comment MUST NOT be a generic acknowledgement. It must include:
- A short statement that more information is needed before investigation can proceed.
- A bullet list of the exact missing details, such as full error message/stack trace, minimal reproduction steps, expected behavior, actual behavior, package version, runtime/OS, or a minimal code sample.
- A note that the team can continue once those details are provided.

### Working as Designed or Service-Side

> If the issue is clearly Azure service behavior outside SDK control, add one comment using this style and close the issue as not planned:

Reviewer: Combining “working as designed” and “service-side” is reasonable from the SDK perspective, but the evidence threshold and customer guidance should be explicit. Please state that the workflow may reach this branch when trusted service/package documentation and the issue evidence show that the SDK is following the service contract/specification, or that the behavior is controlled entirely by the Azure service and cannot be corrected by the SDK. It should explain that the SDK cannot change the behavior, include relevant documentation, direct the customer to the approved Azure support/Q&A/Feedback paths, and close as not planned. If SDK and service/spec ownership remain plausibly ambiguous, do not close; use the information-request or `noop` path.

Author: Addressed. The rule now states the explicit evidence threshold up front: reachable only when trusted service/package documentation plus issue evidence shows either the SDK follows the service contract/spec, or the behavior is fully controlled by the service and cannot be corrected by the SDK. Also added an explicit fallback: if SDK-vs-service ownership remains plausibly ambiguous (docs silent, contradictory, or don't clearly cover the scenario), the workflow must not close - it falls back to Insufficient Context or noop instead.

>
> Unfortunately, Azure does not offer service support through GitHub and service teams do not monitor issues here. To ensure that the right team has visibility and can help, your best path forward would be to open an Azure support request or inquire on the Microsoft Q&A site. For feature suggestions, you may also want to consider the Azure Feedback site.
>
> I'm going to close this out; if I've misunderstood what you're describing, please let us know in a comment and we'd be happy to assist as we're able.

Use exactly these service-support links in the service-side comment as plain URLs, not Markdown links:
- Azure support request: `https://learn.microsoft.com/services-hub/unified/support/open-support-requests?pivots=existing`
- Microsoft Q&A: `https://learn.microsoft.com/answers/questions/`
- Azure Feedback: `https://feedback.azure.com/d365community`

If the behavior is a documented known behavior from service/package context, include the relevant documentation link.

### Actionable SDK Issue

> Assign Copilot only when all are true:

Reviewer: The current criteria identify the right dimensions, but “safe,” “reasonably scoped,” and “likely fix area” remain too subjective for automatic assignment. Please add concrete guardrails: require a specific package/API or documentation location, evidence for a specific SDK-side cause, and a bounded, testable first change. Do not assign automatically for public API design or compatibility, security/privacy, data loss or reliability risk, service-contract changes, broad refactoring, unclear ownership, or live-service investigation. If an exclusion applies or the fix area cannot be stated specifically, use `noop` or request the missing information.

The actionable comment should also name the concrete package/API, suspected fix area, and expected test or documentation change.

Author: Addressed. Replaced the subjective "safe"/"reasonably scoped"/"likely fix area" language with concrete guardrails: a specific package/API or exact doc location must be identified, explicit evidence for the SDK-side cause must exist (source path, README/sample defect, CHANGELOG gap - not a guess), and the fix must be a bounded, testable, first-pass change. Also added the explicit exclusion list you outlined (public API design/compatibility, security/privacy, data loss/reliability risk, service-contract changes, broad refactoring, unclear ownership, live-service-only investigation) - any of these routes to noop or an information request instead of assignment. The pre-assignment comment must now name the concrete package/API, fix area, and expected test/doc change.

---
description: |
  Agentic investigation workflow for customer-reported Azure SDK issues after initial triage.
  It validates the triage handoff, reviews package/service context, decides whether the issue
  is actionable for Copilot, and either comments, closes clear service-side issues, or assigns
  Copilot to implementation work.

on:
  workflow_dispatch:
    inputs:
      issue_number:
        description: "Issue number to investigate"
        required: true
        type: string

> permissions: read-all

Reviewer: Could we align this permission block with `issue-triage.md`?

```yaml
permissions:
  copilot-requests: write
  contents: read
  issues: read
```

The investigation needs repository and issue read access, plus `copilot-requests: write` for the same native gh-aw inference path used by triage. `read-all` grants broader read access while omitting `copilot-requests: write`, which makes this workflow depend on `COPILOT_GITHUB_TOKEN` instead.

---
:robot: jsquire-copilot

Author: Addressed. Replaced `permissions: read-all` with the same explicit block used by `issue-triage.md`. Confirmed the compiled workflow now uses `github.token` for `COPILOT_GITHUB_TOKEN` via the native `copilot-requests: write` permission (rather than the `COPILOT_GITHUB_TOKEN` secret), and the now-unnecessary secret validation step was removed from the compiled output.

network:
  allowed:
    - defaults
    - github
    - dotnet
    - "*.in.applicationinsights.azure.com"
    - "learn.microsoft.com"

>     - "feedback.azure.com"

Reviewer: Could we align failure handling with `issue-triage.md` by adding this setting?

```yaml
safe-outputs:
  report-failure-as-issue: false
```

gh-aw enables failure issue reporting by default. Without this opt-out, transient investigation failures may create repository issues even though triage intentionally suppresses them. Keeping both workflows consistent avoids adding operational noise to the customer support flow.

---
:robot: jsquire-copilot

Author: Addressed. Added `safe-outputs.report-failure-as-issue: false`, matching `issue-triage.md`. Confirmed in the compiled workflow that `GH_AW_FAILURE_REPORT_AS_ISSUE` now resolves to `"false"`.

---
description: |
  Agentic investigation workflow for customer-reported Azure SDK issues after initial triage.
  It validates the triage handoff, reviews package/service context, decides whether the issue
  is actionable for Copilot, and either comments, closes clear service-side issues, or assigns
  Copilot to implementation work.

> on:

Reviewer: Could we please add an issue-specific `job-discriminator` here?

The compiled workflow currently uses `gh-aw-${{ github.workflow }}` as its concurrency group, so investigations dispatched for different issues share one group and are serialized. Adding a discriminator would keep duplicate runs for the same issue coordinated while allowing separate issues to proceed independently.

```yaml
concurrency:
  job-discriminator: ${{ github.event.inputs.issue_number || github.run_id }}
```

---
:robot: jsquire-copilot

Author: Addressed — and worth flagging what I found in the process.

Applied your suggested `job-discriminator`, but verified against the actual compiled output that it only extends the `conclusion` job's group; the top-level workflow concurrency group (`gh-aw-${{ github.workflow }}`, no discriminator) was unaffected. This matches gh-aw's own documented behavior: `job-discriminator` has no effect on `workflow_dispatch`-only triggers at the workflow level. Since this workflow is workflow_dispatch-only, applying just the snippet as given would have left the actual reported symptom (different issues serialized/cancelling each other) unfixed.

So I added an explicit top-level override alongside it:
```yaml
concurrency:
  group: "gh-aw-${{ github.workflow }}-${{ github.event.inputs.issue_number }}"
  queue: max
  job-discriminator: ${{ github.event.inputs.issue_number || github.run_id }}
```
`queue: max` preserves arrival order for same-issue duplicate dispatches (queued, not cancelled) rather than falling back to the GitHub Actions default of discarding earlier pending runs — which is what was actually causing the cancellations seen during live testing earlier in this PR.

Verified with a live test: dispatched investigation for 3 different issues within seconds of each other. All 3 ran fully in parallel and completed successfully with independent results (previously this exact pattern caused ~4 of 6 runs to cancel).
